# FPS Game Development Using Unity With AI And Simulation

The project was carried out to develop a 3D game that could be used for fun and as an efficient way of teaching. The case project was a First-Person Shooting Game in which the player had to search the enemies on a terrain map and kill the enemies by shooting. There were a few enemies on the terrain and they possessed four kinds of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The enemies would discover the player if the player entered into the range of patrol or shot them, and the enemies made long-range damage to the player. The player had to slay all enemies to win the game. If the player was slain, then the game was over. The Health Points (HPs) were used to judge whether the player or enemies died. The player could restore HPs according to touching the Heal Box or finishing a mission.
The game contains two main game scenes, one is the Graphic User Interfaces (GUI) scene and another is the game scene. The player could play on or off the Background Music, view the information of the controller and the author, and start or end this game on the GUI scene. The Skybox, Rigid body, and Terrain were applied to the game. Also, an interesting way of damage calculating was used in the game. The game engine used for the project was Unity 4. Unity 4 was developed by Unity Technologies. It is the synthesizing type of game engine that the designers could use to develop a 3D video game, visualized constructions, and real-time 3D animations. As well Unity is a cross-platform game engine, which means it supports the building of Windows OS, Mac, iOS, Android, Web, Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, Flash Player, and Google Native Client.
The project demonstrates the basic features of the First-Personal Shooting Game and the process of 3D game designing with the Unity 4 game engine. Also, all assets and scripts are flexible for future development.
